TODO.md, before:

TODO
====

1. 	Include note about the distributed version being a vulcanized version (see core-component-page polymer element)
2. 	Annotations
3. 	Fix `core-component-page`. Currently, has hard-coded assumptions about `demo.html`, etc.
4. 	jsdoc events/fires
5. 	config method
6. 	write method (stream spec; see node module for gauge)
7. 	stream api
	- 	stream()
	-	should you be able to specify the particular path you want to update? Makes updating rather hard, as updates which should be batched/grouped together arrive sequentially
	- 	re-emit data event
8. 	
9. 	Examples
		- 	`/simple`
		-	`/stream`
10. dbl-click to zoom canvas
	-	actually needs to be set on the parent container (e.g., a figure element) --> why??
	-	use fixed positioning to take up entire screen
	-	could use magnifying glass icon
11. breakpoints
	- 	at smaller resolutions, fire callback to, e.g., reduce number of tick marks (eventually could become similar to a sparkline)
12. Answer thread about code [organization](x-webdoc://ED43E348-979D-4AA7-89A7-9ED0353AFA37/#group_thread_5)
13. Path stream
	-	append
	-	incrpath
	- 	window
	-	incrmpath
	- 	nan (missing values) --> encoded? Broken segment?
	- 	keep in `array` and output using `Array.prototype.join` ['M0,0', 'L1,1' ]
14. `getConfig`
	-	returns a chart configuration
	- 	marks property should either be an `array` of settings or a single `object`. If `object`, applies to all marks
	- 	Or, charts just choose whether to encode multiple or just one (i.e., the first option)
	- 	I opt for choosing. In which case, `getConfig.marks = [{}]` is a single element `array`.
15. See how plottable does their time x-axis to improve formatting 
16. timeseries stream as separate module (see stream.js and string parsing)
17. move stream to flow
18. FIXME: stream currently assumes `objectMode`!!!!
	-	e.g., that a chunk is not a partial datum! (half a stringified array, etc)
	-	See how jsonstream parses incoming binary chunks
19. replace d3 min/max with compute-min/max
	- 	Not so simple, as would require extracting desired values into separate array, etc. D3 has advantage of using accessors.
20. title positioning
	- 	currently disregarded in favor of legend entries
	- 	if set title, then should auto-update the padding
	- 	or simply set legend to being below the chart
21. should padding be public?
	- 	if do not expose, do not have to honor any settings and can auto-update as see fit. e.g., when provide title, can increase top padding, etc. Remove axis, can expand graph area
22. legend position
	-	`top`, `bottom`, `left`, `right`
23. 
24. draggable timeseries
	-	clone path element into new SVG which is draggable
	- 	probably more to this, cloned element has to be outside the normal DOM (absolute/fixed positioning); has to move with a cursor/finger. Things will probably feel hacky.
	-	if legend label, bind that to the data transfer object
25. 
26. noselect for ticklabels
	-	could be relatively expensive, as need to set the class every time an axis is updated
27. update `package.json` scripts
	- 	place coveralls command in Makefile
28. for Travis, fire up firefox browser as before script and call it a day
	- 	integrate saucelabs at later time
29. 
30. Clean-up events
	- 	event list
	-	data emitted
	-	general 'changed' versus individual attribute (possibly both)
31. `changed` callbacks for `objects` (e.g., config)
	-	will impact how some things are updated (e.g., dragEnd)
32. clear method
	-	reset x/y labels? or keep until new data arrives?
		*	can probably just do the latter
		*	WARNING: not particularly generalizable between chart types (e.g., from timeseries to histogram; the labels will not match; I suppose, however, that each chart can decide whether and how to use label information)
33. 
34. demo socket/sse server
35. are transitions needed? I am skeptical.
36. create absolute and relative time components as part of component
	-	hide until needed
	- 	see datgui
37. el.plot( data )
	-	assuming a selection has been set (else default to body), append a new `polymer-chart-timeseries` element and plot the data.
	-	else returns the new chart element
	- 	basically, a component, once configured, becomes a factory/template for similar components configured the same w diff data
	-	if provided a clbk, return chart.toString()
38. el.toString()
	-	walk DOM (create string)
	-	set styles
	-	crowbar
39. drop behavior
	- 	empty chart
		-	use data transfer min/max and labels
	-	existing chart
		-	min/max abide by new chart convention
		-	conflicting y-labels is a problem
40. favicon
41. preserve font-size on scale transform
42. Emit events on element creation (???; e.g., base, graph, axes,...)
43. set width/height to null and use approach similar to [chartist](https://github.com/gionkunz/chartist-js/blob/develop/src/scripts/svg.js).
	``` javascript
	var width = this.width || this.node.clientWidth || Math.round( this.node.getBBox().width ) || this.parentNode.clientWidth
	```
44. 
45. responsive --> [`window.matchmedia`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window.matchMedia)
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 


#### Notes

As relates to a general plot()...

1. 	distinguish between timeseries and line
	-	parse x0; if fits a date, then create a timeseries element; else line
2. 	if provided a symbol, go with a scatter
3. 	if both, mixed

Commit message:

[UPDATE] remove enforcing aspect ratio.

TODO.md, after:

TODO
====

1. 	Include note about the distributed version being a vulcanized version (see core-component-page polymer element)
2. 	Annotations
3. 	Fix `core-component-page`. Currently, has hard-coded assumptions about `demo.html`, etc.
4. 	jsdoc events/fires
5. 	config method
6. 	write method (stream spec; see node module for gauge)
7. 	stream api
	- 	stream()
	-	should you be able to specify the particular path you want to update? Makes updating rather hard, as updates which should be batched/grouped together arrive sequentially
	- 	re-emit data event
8. 	
9. 	Examples
		- 	`/simple`
		-	`/stream`
10. dbl-click to zoom canvas
	-	actually needs to be set on the parent container (e.g., a figure element) --> why??
	-	use fixed positioning to take up entire screen
	-	could use magnifying glass icon
11. breakpoints
	- 	at smaller resolutions, fire callback to, e.g., reduce number of tick marks (eventually could become similar to a sparkline)
12. Answer thread about code [organization](x-webdoc://ED43E348-979D-4AA7-89A7-9ED0353AFA37/#group_thread_5)
13. Path stream
	-	append
	-	incrpath
	- 	window
	-	incrmpath
	- 	nan (missing values) --> encoded? Broken segment?
	- 	keep in `array` and output using `Array.prototype.join` ['M0,0', 'L1,1' ]
14. `getConfig`
	-	returns a chart configuration
	- 	marks property should either be an `array` of settings or a single `object`. If `object`, applies to all marks
	- 	Or, charts just choose whether to encode multiple or just one (i.e., the first option)
	- 	I opt for choosing. In which case, `getConfig.marks = [{}]` is a single element `array`.
15. See how plottable does their time x-axis to improve formatting 
16. timeseries stream as separate module (see stream.js and string parsing)
17. move stream to flow
18. FIXME: stream currently assumes `objectMode`!!!!
	-	e.g., that a chunk is not a partial datum! (half a stringified array, etc)
	-	See how jsonstream parses incoming binary chunks
19. replace d3 min/max with compute-min/max
	- 	Not so simple, as would require extracting desired values into separate array, etc. D3 has advantage of using accessors.
20. title positioning
	- 	currently disregarded in favor of legend entries
	- 	if set title, then should auto-update the padding
	- 	or simply set legend to being below the chart
21. should padding be public?
	- 	if do not expose, do not have to honor any settings and can auto-update as see fit. e.g., when provide title, can increase top padding, etc. Remove axis, can expand graph area
22. legend position
	-	`top`, `bottom`, `left`, `right`
23. 
24. draggable timeseries
	-	clone path element into new SVG which is draggable
	- 	probably more to this, cloned element has to be outside the normal DOM (absolute/fixed positioning); has to move with a cursor/finger. Things will probably feel hacky.
	-	if legend label, bind that to the data transfer object
25. 
26. noselect for ticklabels
	-	could be relatively expensive, as need to set the class every time an axis is updated
27. update `package.json` scripts
	- 	place coveralls command in Makefile
28. for Travis, fire up firefox browser as before script and call it a day
	- 	integrate saucelabs at later time
29. 
30. Clean-up events
	- 	event list
	-	data emitted
	-	general 'changed' versus individual attribute (possibly both)
31. `changed` callbacks for `objects` (e.g., config)
	-	will impact how some things are updated (e.g., dragEnd)
32. clear method
	-	reset x/y labels? or keep until new data arrives?
		*	can probably just do the latter
		*	WARNING: not particularly generalizable between chart types (e.g., from timeseries to histogram; the labels will not match; I suppose, however, that each chart can decide whether and how to use label information)
33. 
34. demo socket/sse server
35. are transitions needed? I am skeptical.
36. create absolute and relative time components as part of component
	-	hide until needed
	- 	see datgui
37. el.plot( data )
	-	assuming a selection has been set (else default to body), append a new `polymer-chart-timeseries` element and plot the data.
	-	else returns the new chart element
	- 	basically, a component, once configured, becomes a factory/template for similar components configured the same w diff data
	-	if provided a clbk, return chart.toString()
38. el.toString()
	-	walk DOM (create string)
	-	set styles
	-	crowbar
39. drop behavior
	- 	empty chart
		-	use data transfer min/max and labels
	-	existing chart
		-	min/max abide by new chart convention
		-	conflicting y-labels is a problem
40. favicon
41. preserve font-size on scale transform
42. Emit events on element creation (???; e.g., base, graph, axes,...)
43. 
44. 
45. responsive --> [`window.matchmedia`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window.matchMedia)
46. 
47. 
48. Should an option be provided to enforce an aspect ratio?
	-	Maybe more trouble than it is worth.
49. 


#### Notes

As relates to a general plot()...

1. 	distinguish between timeseries and line
	-	parse x0; if fits a date, then create a timeseries element; else line
2. 	if provided a symbol, go with a scatter
3. 	if both, mixed
